# Blueprints and Views

A view function is the code you write to respond to requests to your application. Flask uses patterns to match the incoming request URL to the view that should handle it. The view returns data that Flask turns into an outgoing response. Flask can also go the other direction and generate a URL to a view based on its name and arguments.

## Create a Blueprint

A **Blueprint** is a way to organize a group of related views and other code. Rather than registering views and other code directly with an application, they are registered with a blueprint. Then the blueprint is registered with the application when it is available in the factory function.

Flaskr will have two blueprints:

    1. one for authentication functions and

    2. one for the blog posts functions.

The code for each blueprint will go in a separate module. Since the blog needs to know about authentication, you’ll write the authentication one first.

1. Create a `flaskr/auth.py` file with a new blueprint

```py
# flasky/auth.py

import functools

from flask import (
    Blueprint, flash, g, redirect, render_template, request, session, url_for
)
from werkzeug.security import check_password_hash, generate_password_hash

from flaskr.db import get_db

bp = Blueprint('auth', __name__, url_prefix='/auth')
```

This creates a Blueprint named `auth`. Like the application object, the blueprint needs to know where it’s defined, so `__name__` is passed as the second argument. The `url_prefix` will be prepended to all the URLs associated with the blueprint.

2. Import and register the blueprint from the factory using `app.register_blueprint()`. Place the new code at the end of the factory function before returning the app.

```py
def create_app():
    app = ...
    # existing code omitted

    from . import auth
    app.register_blueprint(auth.bp)

    return app
```

The authentication blueprint will have views to register new users and to log in and log out.

## Create a View: Register `/register`

When the user visits the `/auth/register` URL, the register view will return HTML with a form for them to fill out. When they submit the form, it will validate their input and either show the form again with an error message or create the new user and go to the login page.

For now you will just write the view code. On the next section, you’ll write templates to generate the HTML form.

1. Write the view code on `flaskr/auth.py`

```py
@bp.route('/register', methods=('GET', 'POST'))
def register():
    if request.method == 'POST':
        username = request.form['username']
        password = request.form['password']
        db = get_db()
        error = None

        if not username:
            error = 'Username is required.'
        elif not password:
            error = 'Password is required.'

        if error is None:
            try:
                db.execute(
                    "INSERT INTO user (username, password) VALUES (?, ?)",
                    (username, generate_password_hash(password)),
                )
                db.commit()
            except db.IntegrityError:
                error = f"User {username} is already registered."
            else:
                return redirect(url_for("auth.login"))

        flash(error)

    return render_template('auth/register.html')
```

Here’s what the register view function is doing:

1. `@bp.route` associates the URL `/register` with the register view function. When Flask receives a request to `/auth/register`, it will call the register view and use the return value as the response.

2. If the user submitted the form, `request.method` will be 'POST'. In this case, start validating the input.

3. `request.form` is a special type of `dict` mapping submitted form keys and values. The user will input their username and password.

4. Validate that username and password are not empty.

5. If validation succeeds, insert the new user data into the database.

   - `db.execute` takes a SQL query with `?` placeholders for any user input, and a tuple of values to replace the placeholders with. The database library will take care of escaping the values so you are not vulnerable to a SQL injection attack.

   - For security, passwords should never be stored in the database directly. Instead, `generate_password_hash()` is used to securely hash the password, and that hash is stored. Since this query modifies data, `db.commit()` needs to be called afterwards to save the changes.

   - An `sqlite3.IntegrityError` will occur if the username already exists, which should be shown to the user as another validation error.

6. After storing the user, they are redirected to the login page. `url_for()` generates the URL for the login view based on its name. This is preferable to writing the URL directly as it allows you to change the URL later without changing all code that links to it. `redirect()` generates a redirect response to the generated URL.

7. If validation fails, the error is shown to the user. `flash()` stores messages that can be retrieved when rendering the template.

8. When the user initially navigates to auth/register, or there was a validation error, an HTML page with the registration form should be shown. render_template() will render a template containing the HTML, which we write in the next section.
